That's it for transactions.
I promised you we would talk
about window functions,
I'm finally going to explain
window functions for you.
We talked about that hours ago.
You probably forgot about, I probably
could have just not talked about and
you wouldn't have cared.
Well, surprise, we're back.
A window function is basically,
like I have a bunch of these rows, but
I wanna do something collectively
with all of these rows.
So let's say, for example, I have my
movies, and all of these movies have
ratings with them, or not all of them,
but many of them have movies with them.
And yeah, sorry, I reconnected to the omdb
here, I did \c omdb, you should do that.
Now, we should be back in Movie territory,
I'm gonna clear this.
So I have movies,
SELECT name and vote average,
From movies Limit, I don't know, 20.
So you can see here, people really
didn't vote very high on A New Hope.
I liked that movie.
They liked Pirates of the Caribbean:
The Curse of the Black Pearl.
Who are these people voting for
these things better?
Anyway, How dare they?
So, I can get these vote
averages out of my database.
What if I wanted to compare
that to the average, right?
We're trying to do something like,
is it like a standard deviation better or
a standard deviation worse,
or something like that?
We can use a Window function to do that.
So I can, SELECT name,
kind, kind is like, is it a movie?
Is it a TV show?
The kind of thing.
Vote average, and then I can do an average
function here of vote average.
And then you have to tell it over what.
Well, I wanna do it for the entire
result set, so I'm gonna say OVER (),
this is gonna be the entire results set.
But you could limit it
here if you wanted it to.
And we're gonna do that AS all_average.
FROM movies, and we'll say LIMIT, I don't
know, 15 or 25 or something like that.
We'll say 15.
So you can see here, let's just
run this again with, there we go.
You can see, this is the average 6.25, so
you can see all of these ones that
are showing so far besides Jarhead,
which I admit I saw and
I admit I didn't know that, no.
Kill Bill, no.
Yes for Jarhead,
didn't really care for this movie.
So that tracks with what I think.
We can see the average of all films
versus the ones that we're looking at.
That's cool so far if you do
over with empty modifier there,
empty kind of partition
is what it would be,
you get it across the entire result set.
So if I put like a WHERE here,
WHERE kind equals movie,
it would not use those in the average.
Maybe let's just even do
that to prove my point here.
FROM movies WHERE
kind = 'movie'.
So you can see,
it didn't change a lot, but
you can see these two
numbers are not the same.
So the filter is going to affect that,
right?
It's over the result set, not over all
movies, everything in the movies table.
It's going to be just over the result set.
Differentiation makes sense to you?
Okay, let's take this a step further.
What if I'm interested in
the average by kind, right?
So I wanna compare, maybe I have
this hypothesis that people like
movies better than they like TV shows,
or vice versa.
So we can compare to the average of
its kind as opposed to the average
of the entire result set.
Well, the way you're gonna that is
we're going to say SELECT name, kind,
vote_average, AVG(vote_average).
And then this is where you're gonna use
the OVER, we're gonna say OVER, and
you're gonna use this (PARTITION BY), I
have to make sure I spell partition right.
It's one of those words it's
just sometimes messes you up.
PARTITION BY kind, right, because we're
trying to slice and dice by kind.
And we'll say that as kind _ average,
okay?
From movies, Limit 20,
something like that.
So this isn't super useful so
far because all we're seeing is movies,
but just maybe we get
a larger set here by 100.
Movie, movie, movie, movie,
movie, movie, movie, movie.
Okay, you are not helpful.
Well, let's just add a WHERE so
you can see that it also works for
things that are not movies,
WHERE kind is not equal to movie.
So you can see here, movie,
the average is 6.2, but
if you change it to series,
its average goes up to 6.7.
So people in general seem
to like series better.
AND kind is not equal to series,
Seasons, it seems like people
don't care about seasons.
Okay, and
we should say AND,
vote.average IS NOT NULL.
Okay, I'm trying to get some more episodes
and stuff like that, that's different.
Anyway, hopefully you're catching my
drift here where these numbers are now
different, and
they're different by kind, right?
And they're partitioned by that kind.
What if we're just not even interested
in comparison individual titles,
we just wanna see the average of each
one of these, the average movie,
the average series, the average of that?
Well, you can do that with
tools that we already know.
SELECT DISTINCT kind Average,
AVG, vote_average OVER,
PARTITION BY kind
AS kind_vote_average
FROM movies.
Average series 6.7, looks like there's
no voting whatsoever in seasons.
Episodes 6.2, movie series is
the devil's number, and movie is 6.23.
I like this, I like things where I can
ask a reasonable question about my data,
and I can use a query
to get insights back,
because then my only limit is
the imagination of questions.
I have now my ability
to retrieve the data.
I know,
it's a cycle that I really enjoy, and
that's 95% of what window functions
are and what they buy for you.
If you're trying to derive insight about
groups of rows inside of a single row,
that's when you're gonna
use a window function.
But it allows you to use things like
aggregation functions on an individual
row, you just have to tell
it what you're aggregating.